# Features

## Survival Mechanics
### Q&A
#### why do i need to collect resources?
you need to collect resources to keep your hunger up by eating the resources you dont starve because when you starve you slowly lose health eventually leading to your demise.
you need to collect resources so you can craft, sell them and make your score go up.

#### why do i need money?
you need money so you can buy things from merchants.

#### why do i get money when i collect?
you get money when you collect resources because that is one of the only two ways of getting money
you get money when you collect resources because if you are on low hunger and dont want to sell resources because you want to preserve resources for hunger you can still get a little money.

#### why can i buy things and why?
you can buy things to help you better advance through the game to discover new lands, new creatures and discover how you got here and what are the secrets of this world.

#### why do i get a score?
score is practically exp. in the future i will add new things you can unlock through spending exp. 
#### why do i craft?
you craft so you can get more score and survive harsh new enviroments by crafting things and items eg.
* a gas mask for wastelands
* weapons to kill and hunt food so you dont starve.
* speed boosters to escape dangerous predators
* magic items to summon animals or view them to discover their behavioral patterns and learn about the animals their models are based off of 

### Feature to implement
#### Stamina
Player speed should be 10 and sprint 15 but sprint costs stamina.
#### Hunger and thirst
I wanted to add a thirst feature which is similiar to hunger. On the left of the hunger bar there is a water bar, you can fill it by standing still in water but it fills a little slower than hunger but also drains slower, if it runs out it makes you lose 5 health every 10 seconds. 
#### Pee and defecation
I had an idea about peeing and defecating. In basic its a funny little mechanic to make the game a little more realistic but does not affect much in the game. It works like this: lets say i eat a mushroom, 2 minutes after i eat it the peccary leaves a poo where it is standing and for every second i drank i left a puddle of pee where i was standing two minutes later. pee or poo disappears after two minutes.
#### inventory
i wanted to add an inventory which you can access with I.this inventory covers up most of the screen and has a lot of square cubicles. If you have an item it will appear in a cubicle. If you press on a cubicle with an item you use the item and then that cubicle is empty. If you have not crafted or bought a single item then not a single cubicle will be occupied. at the top of the inventory there are two cubes, one says inventory and is highlighted and another says bestiary and is shaded. If you press bestiary then it becomes highlighted and inventory becomes shaded. All the cubicles disappear and instead there are large cubes with an animal from the game on them. when you press an animal it gives you a lot of information about that animal and if it has variants like babies or genders it allows you to view every single variant and there are buttons you can press to show different animations. It tells you all about its behavior, habitat, and all the things needed to know about that animal.
#### artefacts
artefacts are strange contraptions that are found in various places that you can give to ningle. ningle is another pig person who lives in an adobe hut in the southeast corner of the savannah. you can actually enter the hut and the when in the hut everything outside pauses but doesnt refresh. you can give artefacts to ningle and through this he will tell you about that aretefact and in the future i will add artefacts that can allow entry to new biomes. also, ningle walks around his house. ningle also has two colleages called drongat and pokeir which can also wander around. although he has an adobe hut he is still dressed properly like a scientist and so are his colleages. in the adobe hut it looks sciency and organised but on the outside it looks just like any adobe hut. artefacts can range from ancient clocks to personal belongings like teddies of important pig people in history or ancient devices but they can really be anything.
#### player progression
We should balance the progression with discoveries and rewards. In term of story progression, we can unlock regions after completing some pivot points of the story, as example, finding artifacts. All the regions, apart from the first, should be locked until the respective artifact is found. The other way to reward players could be by unlocking features and abilities. Being these, trading, crafting, ability to defend itself, see specific items in the shops etc.
* 25 score: healing from granny trotter
* 50 score: trading with farmer rosie
* 100 score: buy weapons [things that allow you to attack creatures by running into them.] from bruno
* 200 score: buy things from patches 
* 500 score: sell eggs to elder hamsworth
* felis dronglaticus skull: access to snowy mountains 
these are things that make the player feel progression and motivate them to do things. These also keep the player hooked.
#### snow temple of the great mages of andurat
If you go to the bottom right corner of the snowy mountain map you will find an ancient monument, made purely out of stone. There are statues of felis dronglaticus and its descendants but they look like those indian totems and in the centre there is a stone circle taller than the ground around it but has steps leading up to it so you can reach it. In the centre lies a stone plinth with the tooth of a living relative of the dronglous cat,drongulinat cat. This living relative is a slighty larger version of the dronglous cat with larger paws to spread weight on snow and males are grey-whight and females full whight. the males will mate with the nearest female at a random time by running to her and colliding with her. the females are preganant for 5 minutes and then gives birth to 3 adorable kittens, baby males are radidsh purple and baby females are pumpkin seed green. these babies grow up after 3 minutes and venture off. these ferocious felines will attack deericus iricus when hungry, but they are practically large enough to instantly kill a deericus iricus if they get their hands on one but deericus iricus are fast and will outrun drongulatin cats most of the time but if the cats catch it then the cats perform a takedown animation, which is throwing their prey around violently and then performing the killing bite when the prey is almost dead.
#### snow caninons lartus 
these are the newest addition to the snowy mountains. they are wild dogs with the general morphology of an xl bully dog with larger paws. males are black and females dark grey. they live in packs and every pack has four individuals at the start but three packs spawn, 2 females and 2 males in each. they are peculiar as males can choose a female when prey in the area is abundant and competition is low, giving their pups an edge. females are pregnant for 3 minutes, giving birth to 2 small pups that mature after 3 minutes and stay close to their mother. pups are like mini parents with bigger eyes. the leader of the pack is always a male and the pack can roam freely but still like to stay close to him. they hunt deer by chasing them away from the burrow and when the deer cannot burrow into the ground the pack leader will grab it and kill it, then he drops it and the pack feasts, if youre wondering where the babies stay, read on. packs start off den-less but when a female is pregnant they find a spot and dig with a cool digging animation and a tiny hole appears at the start of digging and gets bigger and bigger until they can fit the mother in, then the babies are born in the den. the den is an actual hole in the ground but if you enter th mother will beat you up. the den has a small entrance but a big underground lair. these babies love to go out for a little bit and play but if a drongulinat cat is close by it will attempt to attack them but they try to run in the den and the mother appears and protects them but sometimes she is too late and the dead pup is dragged away .
#### snow baluban oxen
these are beasts built upon the bodies of musk oxen. they live in snowy mountains of course and are even slightly larger than antelope, making them the largest beast so far. all animals must stay within 50 of the leader. please put a lot of effort in the model. the males are a blue-grey and females are black. both genders have horns but male horns are larger. they live in enourmous herds of over 15 individuals. babies, called calfs, calfs have different models, they are slimmer with longer legs to body ratio, baby females are a kind of potato colour while  baby males are mud brown. every 10 minutes mating season comes in and males rut, similiarly to antelopes. females wich are pregnant stay pregnant for 7 minutes and the baby matures after 6 minutes.if the leader has a male baby when the baby matures it takes 1 other male and 2 other females and makes his own herd. these animals graze on the same shoots as deer. they  are hunted by dogs and if they manage to outrun it this happens! first the whole pack surrounds the prey as it runs, one at the left side, one at the right side and one at the back so that they can control its direction and they dont just run into it like wild dogs,then they nip it by turing their head a little and biting while running next to or behind it then they return to running normally. depending on where they are around the oxen they will nip into it and will need different animations depending where they are. then, the ones which are not at one side will bite the oxens legs at times, slowing it down temporarily as the oxen has to kick back, forcing the dog to let go, then it stops completely and faces its attackers, there are three outcomes, the oxen headbutts some, killing them and the others run, the other is that some dogs die but the pack leader manages a good neck bite and the whole pack bites on, then the oxen falls over and dies because the pack leader manages the fatal neck bite and the pack eat, rest and bring back peices to the mother at the den, the final outcome is immensely rare and is that not a single dog dies and they take down the oxen in the special way mentioned and bring back peices to the mother in the den. The more dogs [ caninons ] there is the higher chance of killing or killing flawlessely. but make sure i can spawn dogs and oxen in the testing menu and initiate hunts and in testing i also have infinite score. just to let you know oxen spawn more down south in the snowy biome, away from other animals.
#### coastal biome. 
you can only enter the coastal biome once you have collected " uronal seal tooth artifact "  it is found just like the felis dronglaticus skull but it is half embedded in the snow temple [ the bit facing towards west ] bring it to ningle or his researchers and they explain it lived at the same time as the felis dronglaticus and it lived in lakes in the snowy mountains but when the lakes froze up into ice and became part of the land then they migrated into the arboreal biome then south to some new, unknown biome. the seal tooth allows entry to the coastal biome which you access through the south border of the arboreal biome, this new biome is one minimap put onto another,like a rectangle and one half is a sort of beach forest full of birch trees [ called seaspray birches ] and the bottom half is some sand on the north border and extends south 45 and the rest is sea, which counts as water.
#### uronin seals and bakka seals. 
uronin seals are descended from uronal seals but arent extinct. please take a lot of care when making both seals and make sure they have proper  seal-like animations. uronin seals are large and chunky and males are grey with grey-blue patches and whiskers. females are a lighter shade of grey, are only a little smaller than males and have white patches and whiskers.baby males are white with completely black, adorable eyes and baby females are black and smaller. they sleep on islands and have a mating season every 5 minutes in which the largest male [ the leader ] will attempt to do all the mating but other males always manage to mate anyways. if a male wants to become a leader he fights the leader and normally loses but if he wins he becomes the leader! if a female has a pup she normally tends to leave her island and her colony and raises the pup to maturity before taking her pup [ now an adult ] back to the colony. bakka seals are also descended from uronal seals but are different from uronin  and live alone. they are slimmer to body proportion than uronin seals and also are smaller. males are creamy beige and females are black. pups are black in both genders and the only difference is size. bakka seals are faster and more agile than uronin seals both in water and on land. if a male and female bakka seal are on the same island they can mate and the female raises four pups. FISH: seals hunt fish of all kinds. 1: slitted sardine. they live in shoals of 20 and males are silver with a blue slit along their back while females are pure silver. they  like to leave eggs on the seafloor and males fertilize them. they are all hunted by both seal types. 2: orcletons. large, solitary fish that is blue in males and ornage in females. females lay eggs whenever and wherever they like and they lay five eggs in their lifetime. are hunted by both seal types but more commonly uronin seals.
#### sea salt. 
You find it underwater when diving, because you need it for the cookie recipe. It can be harvested by pressing E and is found deep at sea. It is practically a rock with the top being white. It cannot be eaten. 
### coastal fauna additions
1.jet crabs. jet crabs are small black crabs which look really realistic and are a bit like ghost crabs that live on beaches and sometimes swim, they serve as a food source to seagulls, seals and orceltons. females are bigger and in mating season a male clicks with his claws to attract a female and then she comes to look at him and there is a 60% chance of approval, if the female approves of him then she will mate then dig a hole in the sand and lay 15 eggs that hatch into adults after 2 minutes. 2. slackpinch crabs. slackpinch crabs are a larger crab species but are of course still no bigger than pedro's snout, males are a little bigger with big pincers and they are yellow with blue pincers and the mobile part of the pincer is orange. females are white and when a male starts clacking a female goes to him, watches his performance and then has a 60% chance to approve and then makes a hole and lays 15 eggs and they hatch into adults after 2 minutes. basicuslin amphipod. a white amphipod that lives in the sand with its antennae sticking out. no genders, lays an egg every now and then, the egg hatches after 3 minutes into an adult. sometimes these amphipods go around the beach eating decaying wood and stuff. 4. beach weasel: an annoying little animal that uses the same model as a viper weasel and runs away from pedro but retaliates fiercely when under attack 
### weapons
dagger. boomerang. crossbow. spurs. tusk enhancements.
## memory fragments

### memory fragment 1
something chasing pedro through the forest. but what and why?
### memory fragment 2
After entering the savannah, you get another memory fragment
it tells about how pedro was looking, for something, but how does that lead to the chase?(the player must find the next memory fragment to find out!)
### memory fragment 3
after ningle tells pedro about the felis dronglaticus skull
pedro gets another memory: someone wanted to silence me? but why? how? 
### memory fragment 4
after finding the snow temple a memory comes along: somebody, hiding, not wanting to be found, i was looking for them, but they... wait...what did they do?
### memory fragment 5
after entering the coastal biome another memory comes along: somebody was hiding in some cave, sent a creature after me because i knew where they were hiding, i knew too much...
### memory fragment 6
after the player gets to an island: someone, making a breakthrough, went into hiding and their family sent me to look for them,then they sent IT,a part of their breakthrough, but what was their breakthrough... 
### memory fragment 7
after the player gets 500 score since the last memory fragment was found:the breakthrough, something to do with bringing back things from a time unknown, but what time? what things?
### memory fragment 8 
after the player gets 670 score since last memory was found: the things were prehistoric beasts, but which ones? and what time? wait... the time... it was the time of a great felinid...
### memory fragment 9
after the player gets 1000 score since last memory was found: the beasts were ancestors of the animals we have tody and other ones that live in other areas of the planet and the time, well, it was the time of felis dronlaticus, and the person? Emilia snoutworth...
### memory fragment 10
after 1000 score since last memory fragment: the beast, the one chasing me, I think it was ... it was errmmm... Ive got it! the beast was felis dronglaticus, brought back from the dead... and Emilia put the skull near ningles hut, thats what I was looking for... and where Emilia was hiding? who knows, probably in some other biome, far, far, away. I will have to look in them all, but, Emilia snoutworth, know that I am coming for you, no matter how far you are, I will look for you, I will find you, and I will punish you by making you bake the best cookies of all time without instructions! And then I will send you to your family, and find a place for all the beasts you brought back...
